  Introduction

If we are to understand the revelation the Apostle John records 
for us here, we need to keep two important things in mind. 
Firstly, its literature type, and secondly, its historical 
context. 

John is recording a vision. This vision takes place for the most 
part in heaven. It records events that take place in the 
spiritual, unseen realm; it describes spiritual forces that lie 
behind earthly events, and it describes these events, not from 
the earthly, but from a heavenly perspective. These events are 
not recorded in chronological order, and they are, in several 
cases, repeated and described differently. Symbolism is used to 
great effect. Numbers and people and places are described 
symbolically, illustrating the spiritual forces that lie behind 
the events, rather than the people and places, as we would 
understand them from an historical perspective. Jesus, for 
example, is described in chapter five as a Lamb with seven horns 
and seven eyes. If we are to take this literally, we would arrive 
at absurd conclusions. Symbolism here is used to illustrate 
something of spiritual significance. The time between Jesus' 
first and second coming is described in chapter twenty as a 
thousand years, again, not meant to be taken literally. Spiritual 
birth is called the first resurrection and eternal punishment, 
the second death. In chapter twelve we read about the woman who 
was about to give birth to a child, and a dragon that was waiting 
to devour it. The historical events are recorded for us in 
Matthew's gospel, chapter two, where we read how King Herod 
slaughtered the children of Bethlehem. 

The historical context of the revelation is the first century, in 
which the church was facing severe persecution for refusing to 
take part in Emperor worship and pagan rituals. To refuse to take 
apart in the state religious system, was seen as treasonous, and 
punishable by banishment or death. The revelation is addressed to 
specific churches in Asia minor, whose existence was being 
threatened by false apostles and false prophets. Throughout the 
vision we are given clues as to the historical setting. For 
example, Rome is described as the city built on seven hills, and 
John tells us in chapter seventeen that he was writing during the 
reign of the sixth Emperor, which was either Nero or Galba, 
depending on where he started counting.

No other book in the Bible so dramatically illustrates the plan 
God has for His creation, and no other book in the Bible has been 
so tragically misused. I pray that God will give you wisdom to 
understand His purpose, and to see, above all, that this is the 
revelation of Jesus the Messiah. 

